+++
title = 'Things seems finally getting together'
date = 2023-12-29T15:41:37+08:00
draft = false
+++

I am a bit excited.

I have been wandering  and straying during my way of learning C++. On and off I feel at a lost somehow. I have tried to explore different use cases and code bases of C++ projects. [10 C++ open source projects welcoming contributions](https://blog.codacy.com/10-cpp-open-source-projects) says [ClickHouse](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse) is one of them. It is a database project that unlike any other relational databases that I have learnt back to school. Learning C++ and another database paradigm, sounds cool. 

My next step  was trying to build it. I have tried a few platforms and Linux seems to be the reliable one, may it be aarch64 o intel. The code base is quite large and beyond my control. So the next step is to take a look at another database.

SQLite appears in my radar but I quickly forget about it because it is C and it is SQL. I want to try something embeddable and in C++.  Then I find [Rocks DB](https://github.com/facebook/rocksdb). It is a key-value pair data storage engine. I am taking it semantically a beefed up tuple in C++ or map in Go. I hope I am right.

After glancing through the examples directory, I can quickly have a small working example that can insert and display some key values. That is interesting. I can take a look and thinker around it to learn some C++.

Another surprise is that, rocks DB is one of the contributing git submodules. Wow, that means whatever I am gonna learn in the future can be helpful to my foray into ClickHouse. That is good.
