---
layout: post
title: my reading list
date: 2021-10-05 22:40:00 +0800
categories: post

---

The good news is I have finished Richard Hass's The World. The bad news
is that I have started his previous book [A World in
Disarray](https://www.amazon.com/dp/B01ESI3PPG/). This one is more or
less focused on foreign affairs. 

After I have completed the World, I was at an unease. I have finished
the book, but the carving for reading, for more, remains. I briefly read
[Peril](https://www.amazon.com/Bob-Woodward-ebook/dp/B098PDDZW3/). But
quickly realized that it is more or less a vent of the Trump
administration. At the end of "where to go for more" section of the
book, I found "immodestly" A World in Disarray. So why not give it a go?

The tone, pace and style is familiar and so are some materials. It
served as warm up and continuation of the world. I am enjoying it and
learnt a lot from it. I have so far completed 25%.

More than once Richard has mentioned Henry. Henry must be some
heavyweight as he has been honorably mentioned a knowledgable man. Henry
is indeed an important man during the cold war. His book [on
China](https://www.amazon.com/-/zh_TW/Henry-Kissinger-ebook/dp/B0046ECJBY/)
could be a must read about China. That is the next book in my reading
list.

My reading list should have ended here. But it does not. Thanks to J.
Bradford Delong's [The Strange Death of Conservative
America](https://prosyn.org/RAIzwNl). From here, I have learnt more books. The 
first one is Geoffrey Kabaservice's [Rule and
Ruin](https://global.oup.com/academic/product/rule-and-ruin-9780199768400).
It is about the history of modern America. I haven't read it so I could
be wrong. The second one is Steven Levitsky and Daniel Ziblatt's [How
Democracies
Die](https://www.penguinrandomhouse.com/books/562246/how-democracies-die-by-steven-levitsky-and-daniel-ziblatt/).
Democracies have died? Interesting. That deserves a closer look. Last
but not least George Dangerfield's [The strange death of Liberal
England](https://archive.org/details/strangedeathofli00dang), where the
rubric of the article comes from. 

OK, four books now. It should really stop - for now.
