---
layout: post
title: blockchain
date: 2021-09-10 23:50:00 +0800
categories: post

---

[From here](https://www.reuters.com/technology/south-koreas-gen-mz-leads-rush-into-metaverse-2021-09-08/),
I have learnt about Decentraland and earth2. Those are new metaverses
based on blockchain - particular Ethereum. I will learn about Ethereum,
but now I need to sort out Rust and Python. These languages are of a
little priority now.

Rust is purely a personal hobby. It is the most liked language in
stack overflow, so must be something that can have a closer look. I have
grasped around 20% of it so far. The key concepts such as ownership and
traits, though I have got a vague picture of it, but not a very solid
understanding. I am working on rustlings now. After that, I will follow
the materials [listed in my previous
post](https://w62.github.io/post/2021/09/08/rust.html).

Python is about network automation. I am working in a Juniper house and
I think it is really time to modernize my knowledge and skill sets.
There are some technical and non-technical issues which is not an
appropriate topic for a GitHub page blog. Nevertheless, that won't stop
me from advancing my skill sets. 

I have glanced though [Network Programmability and
Automation](https://www.amazon.com/Network-Programmability-Automation-Next-Generation-Engineer/dp/1491931256). 
That fits my working environment mostly. Python is the central working
horse of the entire idea - just like BGP is the working horse in the
Juniper world. So I can't avoid Python. If I can't avoid it, take it.

With respect to Rust, Python is easy. There are tones of books about
data science, exel automation etc. The limitation is your imagination.
Whatever, get Python first.





